Bugfix/MTM-53267_extending_user_context_description (#1534)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/microservice-sdk/java-bundle/developing-microservice.md

### Context support {#context-support}

> The context support is covered by the annotation `@EnableContextSupport`. It allows for choosing between `@TenantScope` and `@UserScope` which is related to the user management of microservices, as described in [General aspects](/microservice-sdk/general-aspects) in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The context support is covered by the annotation `@EnableContextSupport`. It allows to choose between `@TenantScope` and `@UserScope` which is related to the user management of microservices, as described in [General aspects](/microservice-sdk/general-aspects) in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
```

Within the tenant scope, the service account credentials are used for the communication with the platform, while within the user scope the credentials of the authenticated user sending the request are used.

#### Tenant scope  

> To create a bean in the tenant scope, you can use the annotation `@TenantScope`, as in the following code snippet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a bean in the tenant scope, use the annotation `@TenantScope`, as in the following example. 
```

```java
@TenantScope
@Bean(name = "tenantMeasurementApi")
public MeasurementApi getMeasurementApi() throws SDKException {
  return delegate.getMeasurementApi();
}
```

> If you then use the bean `tenantMeasurementApi`, the context is automatically set to the `@TenantScope` and the service user credentials are utilized.

Reviewer 2: What you mean with "automatically set to the @TenantScope"?
This annotation seems to be set explicitly in the example!?

Author: That the bean is in the tenant scope. I will try to rephrase it to make it clearer

Author: I have removed "automatically".

> By default, the beans are created in the tenant scope and use the service user to communicate with the platform. This behaviour is also enabled when using the respective annotation for the tenant context. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the beans are created in the tenant scope and use the service user to communicate with the platform. This behavior is also enabled when using the respective annotation for the tenant context. 
```

There are predefined beans both in the `@TenantScope` and `@UserScope`. 

> The name of a bean in the tenant scope consists of the prefix `"tenant"` and the name of the respective API. Thus, to use MeasurementApi in the @TenantScope, you can specify @Qualifier("tenantMeasurementApi"), as shown in the example below. As the tenant scope is the default context for the created beans, the annotation can also be omitted. Therefore, the following two excerpts are equivalent and both suggest that the service user credentials will be used for the communication with the platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of a bean in the tenant scope consists of the prefix "tenant" and the name of the respective API. Thus, to use the Measurement API in the tenant scope, you can specify `@Qualifier("tenantMeasurementApi")`, as shown in the example below. As the tenant scope is the default context for the created beans, the annotation can also be omitted. Therefore, the following two excerpts are equivalent and both suggest that the service user credentials will be used for the communication with the platform. 
```

```java
@Autowired

@Qualifier("tenantMeasurementApi")
private MeasurementApi measurementApi;
```

```java
@Autowired
private MeasurementApi measurementApi;
```
In both cases, beans within the tenant scope will be auto-wired. 

#### User scope
In certain situations the microservice should not use the service user credentials but the credentials of the user sending the request. 

> To create a bean in the user scope, you should specify `@UserScope`, as in the snippet below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a bean in the user scope, specify `@UserScope`, as in the example below. 
```

> To create a bean from the same class in the user scope, you should specify `@UserScope`, as in the snippet below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a bean from the same class in the user scope, specify `@UserScope`, as in the example below. 
```

```java
@UserScope
@Bean(name = "userMeasurementApi")
public MeasurementApi getMeasurementApi() throws SDKException {
  return delegate.getMeasurementApi();
}
```

> Analogously to the tenant scope case, there are predefined beans in the user scope. The name of such beans consists of the prefix `"user"` and the name of the API. An example of auto-wiring a bean of the `@UserScope` is given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analogously to the tenant scope case, there are predefined beans in the user scope. The name of such beans consists of the prefix "user" and the name of the API. An example of auto-wiring a bean of the `@UserScope` is given below.
```

> To use `@UserScope`, you have to use the respective annotations enabling it. Analogously to the tenant scope case, there are predefined beans in the user scope. The name of such beans consists of the prefix `"user"` and the name of the API. An example of auto-wiring a bean of the `@UserScope` is given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use `@UserScope`, you must use the respective annotations enabling it. Analogously to the tenant scope case, there are predefined beans in the user scope. The name of such beans consists of the prefix "user" and the name of the API. An example of auto-wiring a bean of the `@UserScope` is given below.
```

```java
@Autowired
@Qualifier("userMeasurementApi")
private MeasurementApi measurementApi;
```

> Within the user scope, the created beans use the credentials of the authenticated user sending the request instead of the default service user for the commication with the platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the user scope, the created beans use the credentials of the authenticated user sending the request instead of the default service user for the communication with the platform. 
```

#### Setting the credentials explicitly

> We can explicitly set the credentials to be used through ContextService. To use the credentials of the user sending the request, we have to use `ContextService<UserCredentials>`. Analogously, `ContextService<MicroserviceCredentials>` can be used for service user credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can explicitly set the credentials to be used through `ContextService`. To use the credentials of the user sending the request, use `ContextService<UserCredentials>`. Analogously, `ContextService<MicroserviceCredentials>` can be used for service user credentials. 
```

> An example on how to use ContextService is given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example on how to use `ContextService` is given below.
```

### Context support {#context-support}

The context support is covered by the annotation `@EnableContextSupport`. It allows to choose between `@TenantScope` and `@UserScope` which is related to the user management of microservices, as described in [General aspects](/microservice-sdk/general-aspects) in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Each microservice has a service user which can be used for the interaction with the platform. The roles associated with this user are specified in the manifest. 

> Within the tenant scope, the credentials of this service user are used for the communication with the platform, while within the user scope the credentials of the authenticated user sending the request are used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Within the tenant scope, the credentials of this service user are used for the communication with the platform, while within the user scope the credentials of the authenticated user sending the request to the microservice are used.
```

#### Tenant scope  
To create a bean in the tenant scope, use the annotation `@TenantScope`, as in the following code example. 

```java
@TenantScope
@Bean(name = "tenantMeasurementApi")
public MeasurementApi getMeasurementApi() throws SDKException {
  return delegate.getMeasurementApi();

> }

Reviewer 3: This is not a good example as it's not self contained due to unknown reference to `delegate` variable. Also the `name` attribute of the `@Bean` annotation is unnecessary in this context.

Author: s. d9bc2ad8936e4cbb041129ef5cd5f8ade8e782bf

```

> If you then use the bean `tenantMeasurementApi`, the context is set to `@TenantScope` and the service user credentials are utilized.

Reviewer 3: The context is set with `ContextService`. Using the scoped bean requires the context to be set upfront. It is not true, that using the bean will set the context.

Author: In d9bc2ad8936e4cbb041129ef5cd5f8ade8e782bf I have changed the flow to start with the ContextService and have corrected the sentence with setting the context.

> By default, the beans are created in the tenant scope and use the service user to communicate with the platform. This behavior is also enabled when using the respective annotation for the tenant context. 

Reviewer 3: By default beans are created in `singleton` scope in Spring. The default tenant scope refers only to Platform API related beans provided by SDK.

Author: s. d9bc2ad8936e4cbb041129ef5cd5f8ade8e782bf

### Context support {#context-support}

The context support is covered by the annotation `@EnableContextSupport`. It allows to choose between `@TenantScope` and `@UserScope` which is related to the user management of microservices, as described in [General aspects](/microservice-sdk/general-aspects) in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Each microservice has a service user which can be used for the interaction with the platform. The roles associated with this user are specified in the manifest. 
Within the tenant scope, the credentials of this service user are used for the communication with the platform, while within the user scope the credentials of the authenticated user sending the request to the microservice are used.

#### Setting the context

> You can explicitly set the context along with the credentials to be used through `ContextService`. To use the credentials of the user sending the request, use `ContextService<UserCredentials>`. Analogously, `ContextService<MicroserviceCredentials>` can be used for service user credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can explicitly set the context along with the credentials to be used through `ContextService`. To use the credentials of the user sending the request, use `ContextService<UserCredentials>`. Accordingly, `ContextService<MicroserviceCredentials>` can be used for service user credentials. 
```

> Examples on how to use `ContextService` is given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples on how to use `ContextService` are given below.
```

```java
@Autowired
private ContextService<UserCredentials> contextService;
@Autowired
private EventApi eventApi;

public PagedEventCollectionRepresentation get10Events () {
  return contextService.runWithinContext(contextService.getContext(), () -> eventApi.getEvents().get(10));
}
```

> In this example, the events will be obtained using the credentials of the authenticated user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this first example, the events are obtained using the credentials of the authenticated user.
```

> Analogously, the credentials of the service user will be utilized to retrieve the events in the example given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second example, the credentials of the service user will be utilized to retrieve the events.
```

```java
@Autowired
private ContextService<MicroserviceCredentials> contextService;
@Autowired
private EventApi eventApi;

public PagedEventCollectionRepresentation get10Events () {
  return contextService.runWithinContext(contextService.getContext(), () -> eventApi.getEvents().get(10));
}
```

#### Tenant scope  
The tenant scope is associated with the usage of the service user credentials and is annotated with `@TenantScope`. 
To create a bean, named `tenantEventApi` in the tenant scope, use the annotation `@TenantScope`, as in the following code example. 

```java
@Autowired
private Platform platform;

@TenantScope
@Bean(name = "tenantEventApi")
public EventApi eventApi (Platform platform) throws SDKException {
  return platform.getEventApi();
}  
```

By default, the Platform API related beans provided by the Microservice SDK are created in the tenant scope and use the service user to communicate with the platform.  

There are predefined beans both in the `@TenantScope` and `@UserScope`. 

> The name of a bean in the tenant scope consists of the prefix `"tenant"` and the name of the respective API. Thus, to use the Event Api in the tenant scope, you can specify @Qualifier("tenantEventApi"), as shown in the example below. As the tenant scope is the default context for the created beans, the annotation can also be omitted. Therefore, the following two excerpts are equivalent and both suggest that the service user credentials will be used for the communication with the platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of a bean in the tenant scope consists of the prefix `"tenant"` and the name of the respective API. Thus, to use the Event API in the tenant scope, you can specify @Qualifier("tenantEventApi"), as shown in the example below. As the tenant scope is the default context for the created beans, the annotation can also be omitted. Therefore, the following two excerpts are equivalent and both suggest that the service user credentials will be used for the communication with the platform. 
```

```java
@Autowired
@Qualifier("tenantEventApi")
private EventApi eventApi;
```

```java
@Autowired
private EventApi eventApi;
```
In both cases, beans within the tenant scope will be auto-wired. 

#### User scope
In certain situations the microservice should not use the service user credentials but the credentials of the user sending the request. 

> To create a bean in the user scope, specify `@UserScope`, as in the example below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a bean in the user scope, specify `@UserScope`:
```
